---
marp: true
size: 4:3
theme: default
---

# Enhancing sensitivity and controlling false discovery rate in somatic indel discovery

---

impurity (the ratio of healthy genome copies in the tumor sample)

---

影响indel的因素：
gap
alignment ambiguities
twilight zone indels
cancer heterogeneity
sample purity
sampling
strand bias

---

+ Low-frequency variants (i.e. having a VAF close to zero) yield particularly weak, statistically uncertain signals.
+ Turning our attention to real data, we conclude that Varlociraptor achieves superior concordance for variants of VAF at least 20%. For variants of VAF of less than 20%, Varlociraptor is the only tool that discovers considerable amounts of variants.
+ We matched them against the known truth using the vcf-match subcommand of RBT15 with parameters `--max-dist 50 --max-len-diff 50`. This means that we consider a predicted somatic variant to be a true positive if it’s position and length are within 50 bases of the true variant (which reflects approved evaluation practice, see [Wittler et al., 2015] for further reasoning).

---

Melanoma cell line COLO829)

---

# ClinCNV: novel method for allele-specific somatic copy-number alterations detection

---
## i. Input data and normalization
### i.1 Generation of input data for ClinCNV
Selection of SNVs for BAF analysis and CNA detection.
+ We use only positions that are likely heterozygous in the normal tissue (BAF between 0.4 and 0.6). 
+ Additionally, to determine whether the particular SNV is het- erozygous or not we take into account “inher- ent biases due to differential mapping affinity between the reference and the variant allele” ([Shen et al., 2016]).
### i.2 Exclusion of copy-number imbalanced chromosome arms from further normalization process.
+ We use B-allele frequency as an indicator if the genomic region can be used for normalization or not. Namely, we select chromosome arms which are likely to be copy-number neutral and use only them for normalization.

### i.3 Normalization of coverage profiles

---

ii. Purpose of the in-direct estimation of variances

---

iii. Detailed description of the seg- mentation and calling algorithm

a genomic segment that shows the highest evidence that a model different from the baseline fits the observed coverage depth signature better. 

---

+ ClinCNV is a multi-sample caller so all the samples sequenced with the same panel should be analyzed jointly

---

